articles/quickstart/webapp/rails/01-login.md, before:

---
title: Login
description: Ruby on Rails Login with Auth0
budicon: 448
---

<%= include('../../../_includes/_package', {
  org: 'auth0-samples',
  repo: 'auth0-rubyonrails-sample',
  path: '01-Login',
  requirements: [
    'Ruby 2.3.1',
    'Rails 5.0.0'
  ]
}) %>

The first step in adding authentication to your Ruby on Rails application is to provide a way for your users to log in. The fastest, most secure, and most feature-rich way to do this with Auth0 is to use [Universal Login](/hosted-pages/login).

## Create an Application

Create a new application in your [Auth0 dashboard](${manage_url}) and retrieve the __Domain__, __Client ID__ and __Client Secret__ for the app. The downloadable samples throughout the quickstart steps will be configured with the credentials for your default application.

![App Dashboard](/media/articles/server-platforms/rails/app_dashboard.png)

<%= include('../../../_includes/_callback_url') %>

${include('../_callbackRegularWebApp')}

In this case, the callbackURL should look something like:

```bash
https://example.com/auth/oauth2/callback
```

## Install the Dependencies

To follow along with this guide, add the following dependencies to your `Gemfile` and run `bundle install`.

::: note
If you are using Windows, uncomment the `tzinfo-data` gem in the Gemfile.
:::

${snippet(meta.snippets.dependencies)}

## Initialize Omniauth Auth0

Create a file named `auth0.rb` under `config/initializers` and configure the **OmniAuth** middleware in it.

${snippet(meta.snippets.setup)}

::: note
This tutorial uses omniauth-auth0, a custom [OmniAuth strategy](https://github.com/intridea/omniauth#omniauth-standardized-multi-provider-authentication).
:::

## Add the Auth0 Callback Handler

Use the following command to create the controller that will handle the Auth0 callback:

```bash
rails generate controller auth0 callback failure --skip-template-engine --skip-assets
```

In the newly created controller, add a callback success and failure handler.

```ruby
# app/controllers/auth0_controller.rb
class Auth0Controller < ApplicationController
  def callback
    # This stores all the user information that came from Auth0
    # and the IdP
    session[:userinfo] = request.env['omniauth.auth']

    # Redirect to the URL you want after successful auth
    redirect_to '/dashboard'
  end

  def failure
    # show a failure page or redirect to an error page
    @error_msg = request.params['message']
  end
end
```

Replace the generated routes on `routes.rb` with the following:

```ruby
get "/auth/oauth2/callback" => "auth0#callback"
get "/auth/failure" => "auth0#failure"
```

## Trigger Login with Omniauth

Create a file called `session_helper.rb`:

```ruby
# app/helpers/session_helper.rb

module SessionHelper
  def get_state
    state = SecureRandom.hex(24)
    session['omniauth.state'] = state

    state
  end
end
```

Use the following command to create the controller that will handle user login:

```bash
rails generate controller home
```

In the controller `home_controller.rb` add the `show` action.

```ruby
# app/controllers/home_controller.rb

class HomeController < ApplicationController
  def show
  end
end
```

Create a file called `show.html.erb` to add the template for `show` action. Add a link to `/auth/auth0` to trigger user login.

```html
<!-- app/views/home/show.html.erb -->

<section class="jumbotron text-center">
  <h2><img class="jumbo-thumbnail" src="https://cdn.auth0.com/styleguide/1.0.0/img/badge.svg"></h2>
  <h1>RoR Auth0 Sample</h1>
  <p>Step 1 - Login.</p>
  <a class="btn btn-success btn-lg" href="/auth/auth0">Login</a>
</section>
```

## Check the User's Authentication Status

You can use a controller `concern` to control access to routes that require the user to be authenticated.

```ruby
# app/controllers/concerns/secured.rb

module Secured
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  included do
    before_action :logged_in_using_omniauth?
  end

  def logged_in_using_omniauth?
    redirect_to '/' unless session[:userinfo].present?
  end
end
```

Use the following command to create the controller for the dashboard view:

```bash
rails generate controller dashboard show --skip-template-engine --skip-assets
```

Include the `concern` in the newly-created controller to prevent unauthenticated users from accessing its routes:

```ruby
# app/controllers/dashboard_controller.rb

class DashboardController < ApplicationController
  include Secured

  def show
  end
end
```

## Display Error Descriptions

Configure the application to display errors by adding the following to `config/environments/production.rb`:

```ruby
OmniAuth.config.on_failure = Proc.new { |env|
  message_key = env['omniauth.error.type']
  error_description = Rack::Utils.escape(env['omniauth.error'].error_reason)
  new_path = "#{env['SCRIPT_NAME']}#{OmniAuth.config.path_prefix}/failure?message=#{message_key}&error_description=#{error_description}"
  Rack::Response.new(['302 Moved'], 302, 'Location' => new_path).finish
}
```

## Troubleshooting

### ActionDispatch::Cookies::CookieOverflow

This error means that a cookie session is being used and because the whole profile is being stored, it overflows the max-size of 4 kb. If you are unable to access the user profile and you get an error similar to `NoMethodError`, `undefined method '[]' for nil:NilClass`, try using In-Memory store for development.

Go to `/config/initializers/session_store.rb` and add the following:

```ruby
Rails.application.config.session_store :cache_store
```

Go to `/config/environments/development.rb` and add the following:

```ruby
config.cachestore = :memorystore
```

It is recommended that a memory store such as MemCached being used for production applications.

### SSL Issues

Under some configurations, Ruby may not be able to find certification authority certificates (CA certs).

Download the CA certs bundle to the project directory:

```bash
$ curl -o lib/ca-bundle.crt http://curl.haxx.se/ca/ca-bundle.crt
```

Add this initializer to `config/initializers/fix_ssl.rb`:

```ruby
require 'open-uri'
require 'net/https'

module Net
  class HTTP
    alias_method :original_use_ssl=, :use_ssl=

    def use_ssl=(flag)
      path = ( Rails.env == "development") ? "lib/ca-bundle.crt" : "/usr/lib/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt"
      self.ca_file = Rails.root.join(path).to_s
      self.verify_mode = OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_PEER
      self.original_use_ssl = flag
    end
  end
end
```

### "failure message=invalid_credentials"

This issue doesn't occur when working locally but may happen in a staging or production environment. The error message may be displayed as:

```
omniauth: (auth0) Authentication failure! invalid_credentials: OAuth2::Error, server_error: The redirect URI is wrong. You send [wrong url], and we expected [callback url set in your app settings]
```

To solve this, add the following to `config/environments/staging.rb` or `production.rb`:

```ruby
OmniAuth.config.full_host = "http://www.example.com"
```

Substitute `http://www.example.com` with the actual URL you'll be using in your application.

Commit message:

Add requirements, github data, change description

articles/quickstart/webapp/rails/01-login.md, after:

---
title: Login
description: This tutorial demonstrates add authentication and authorization to your Ruby on Rails app.
budicon: 448
github:
  path: 01-Login
---

The first step in adding authentication to your Ruby on Rails application is to provide a way for your users to log in. The fastest, most secure, and most feature-rich way to do this with Auth0 is to use [Universal Login](/hosted-pages/login).

## Create an Application

Create a new application in your [Auth0 dashboard](${manage_url}) and retrieve the __Domain__, __Client ID__ and __Client Secret__ for the app. The downloadable samples throughout the quickstart steps will be configured with the credentials for your default application.

![App Dashboard](/media/articles/server-platforms/rails/app_dashboard.png)

<%= include('../../../_includes/_callback_url') %>

${include('../_callbackRegularWebApp')}

In this case, the callbackURL should look something like:

```bash
https://example.com/auth/oauth2/callback
```

## Install the Dependencies

To follow along with this guide, add the following dependencies to your `Gemfile` and run `bundle install`.

::: note
If you are using Windows, uncomment the `tzinfo-data` gem in the Gemfile.
:::

${snippet(meta.snippets.dependencies)}

## Initialize Omniauth Auth0

Create a file named `auth0.rb` under `config/initializers` and configure the **OmniAuth** middleware in it.

${snippet(meta.snippets.setup)}

::: note
This tutorial uses omniauth-auth0, a custom [OmniAuth strategy](https://github.com/intridea/omniauth#omniauth-standardized-multi-provider-authentication).
:::

## Add the Auth0 Callback Handler

Use the following command to create the controller that will handle the Auth0 callback:

```bash
rails generate controller auth0 callback failure --skip-template-engine --skip-assets
```

In the newly created controller, add a callback success and failure handler.

```ruby
# app/controllers/auth0_controller.rb
class Auth0Controller < ApplicationController
  def callback
    # This stores all the user information that came from Auth0
    # and the IdP
    session[:userinfo] = request.env['omniauth.auth']

    # Redirect to the URL you want after successful auth
    redirect_to '/dashboard'
  end

  def failure
    # show a failure page or redirect to an error page
    @error_msg = request.params['message']
  end
end
```

Replace the generated routes on `routes.rb` with the following:

```ruby
get "/auth/oauth2/callback" => "auth0#callback"
get "/auth/failure" => "auth0#failure"
```

## Trigger Login with Omniauth

Create a file called `session_helper.rb`:

```ruby
# app/helpers/session_helper.rb

module SessionHelper
  def get_state
    state = SecureRandom.hex(24)
    session['omniauth.state'] = state

    state
  end
end
```

Use the following command to create the controller that will handle user login:

```bash
rails generate controller home
```

In the controller `home_controller.rb` add the `show` action.

```ruby
# app/controllers/home_controller.rb

class HomeController < ApplicationController
  def show
  end
end
```

Create a file called `show.html.erb` to add the template for `show` action. Add a link to `/auth/auth0` to trigger user login.

```html
<!-- app/views/home/show.html.erb -->

<section class="jumbotron text-center">
  <h2><img class="jumbo-thumbnail" src="https://cdn.auth0.com/styleguide/1.0.0/img/badge.svg"></h2>
  <h1>RoR Auth0 Sample</h1>
  <p>Step 1 - Login.</p>
  <a class="btn btn-success btn-lg" href="/auth/auth0">Login</a>
</section>
```

## Check the User's Authentication Status

You can use a controller `concern` to control access to routes that require the user to be authenticated.

```ruby
# app/controllers/concerns/secured.rb

module Secured
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  included do
    before_action :logged_in_using_omniauth?
  end

  def logged_in_using_omniauth?
    redirect_to '/' unless session[:userinfo].present?
  end
end
```

Use the following command to create the controller for the dashboard view:

```bash
rails generate controller dashboard show --skip-template-engine --skip-assets
```

Include the `concern` in the newly-created controller to prevent unauthenticated users from accessing its routes:

```ruby
# app/controllers/dashboard_controller.rb

class DashboardController < ApplicationController
  include Secured

  def show
  end
end
```

## Display Error Descriptions

Configure the application to display errors by adding the following to `config/environments/production.rb`:

```ruby
OmniAuth.config.on_failure = Proc.new { |env|
  message_key = env['omniauth.error.type']
  error_description = Rack::Utils.escape(env['omniauth.error'].error_reason)
  new_path = "#{env['SCRIPT_NAME']}#{OmniAuth.config.path_prefix}/failure?message=#{message_key}&error_description=#{error_description}"
  Rack::Response.new(['302 Moved'], 302, 'Location' => new_path).finish
}
```

## Troubleshooting

### ActionDispatch::Cookies::CookieOverflow

This error means that a cookie session is being used and because the whole profile is being stored, it overflows the max-size of 4 kb. If you are unable to access the user profile and you get an error similar to `NoMethodError`, `undefined method '[]' for nil:NilClass`, try using In-Memory store for development.

Go to `/config/initializers/session_store.rb` and add the following:

```ruby
Rails.application.config.session_store :cache_store
```

Go to `/config/environments/development.rb` and add the following:

```ruby
config.cachestore = :memorystore
```

It is recommended that a memory store such as MemCached being used for production applications.

### SSL Issues

Under some configurations, Ruby may not be able to find certification authority certificates (CA certs).

Download the CA certs bundle to the project directory:

```bash
$ curl -o lib/ca-bundle.crt http://curl.haxx.se/ca/ca-bundle.crt
```

Add this initializer to `config/initializers/fix_ssl.rb`:

```ruby
require 'open-uri'
require 'net/https'

module Net
  class HTTP
    alias_method :original_use_ssl=, :use_ssl=

    def use_ssl=(flag)
      path = ( Rails.env == "development") ? "lib/ca-bundle.crt" : "/usr/lib/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt"
      self.ca_file = Rails.root.join(path).to_s
      self.verify_mode = OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_PEER
      self.original_use_ssl = flag
    end
  end
end
```

### "failure message=invalid_credentials"

This issue doesn't occur when working locally but may happen in a staging or production environment. The error message may be displayed as:

```
omniauth: (auth0) Authentication failure! invalid_credentials: OAuth2::Error, server_error: The redirect URI is wrong. You send [wrong url], and we expected [callback url set in your app settings]
```

To solve this, add the following to `config/environments/staging.rb` or `production.rb`:

```ruby
OmniAuth.config.full_host = "http://www.example.com"
```

Substitute `http://www.example.com` with the actual URL you'll be using in your application.
